---
title: 'S3 Data Connector'
sidebar_label: 'S3 Data Connector'
description: 'S3 Data Connector Documentation'
---

The S3 Data Connector enables federated SQL query across Parquet files stored in S3, or S3-compatible storage solutions (e.g. MinIO, Cloudflare R2).

Support for Iceberg, CSV, and other file-formats are on the roadmap.

If a folder is provided, all child Parquet files will be loaded.

## Dataset Schema Reference

### `from`

The S3-compatible URI to a folder or object in form `from: s3://<bucket>/<file>`

Example: `from: s3://s3-bucket-name/path/to/parquet/cool_dataset.parquet`

### `name`

The dataset name.

Example: `name: cool_dataset`

### `params` (optional)

- `endpoint`: The S3 endpoint, or equivalent (e.g. MinIO endpoint), for the S3-compatible storage. E.g. `endpoint: https://my.minio.server`
- `region`: Region of the S3 bucket, if region specific. E.g. `region: us-east-1`

### `auth` (optional)

Not required for public endpoints.

- `key`: The access key (e.g. `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` for AWS)
- `secret`The secret key (e.g. `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` for AWS)

For endpoints protected by access keys, `key` and `secret` are required and must be passed using a [Secrets Store](/secret-stores) or via `spice s3 login`. Support for dataset specific authentication is on the roadmap.

Example: `spice login s3 -k AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE -s wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY`

## Examples

### MinIO Example

Create a dataset named `cool_dataset` from a Parquet file stored in MinIO.

```yaml
- from: s3://s3-bucket-name/path/to/parquet/cool_dataset.parquet
  name: cool_dataset
  params:
    endpoint: https://my.minio.server
    region: 'us-east-1' # Best practice for Minio
```

### S3 Authenticated Example

Create a dataset named `cool_dataset` from a protected Parquet file stored in S3.

First, log in using `spice login s3 -k AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE -s wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY` then use the dataset:

```yaml
- from: s3://my-startups-data/path/to/parquet/cool_dataset.parquet
  name: cool_dataset
  params:
    region: 'us-east-1'
```

### S3 Public Example

Create a dataset named `taxi_trips` from a public S3 folder.

```yaml
- from: s3://spiceai-demo-datasets/taxi_trips/2024/
  name: taxi_trips
```

## Limitations

- Automatic discovery of nested paths are not yet supported. Only Parquet files in the root of the endpoint path will be loaded.

- Only S3 authentication using `aws_access_key_id` and `aws_secret_access_key` is currently supported. Please [submit an issue](https://github.com/spiceai/spiceai/issues/new?template=feature_request.md) if you would like to see support for other authentication methods.
